{
"key": "value"
}

2. Why MBA? Why NITK?

    While I come from a strong technical background, I realized that technology alone doesn't solve real-world problems unless it's managed and directed well. Through MBA, I want to gain skills in strategic thinking, data-driven decision-making, and business communication so I can build scalable, socially impactful tech products or even manage tech-driven ventures.

    I chose NITK Surathkal because of its outstanding academic environment, excellent faculty in the School of Management, and its reputation as an Institute of National Importance. I believe NITK can help me grow both personally and professionally, offering the right balance between technical and managerial development.

✅ 3. What are your key strengths?

        Analytical Thinking: Through projects and GATE preparation, I developed strong logical and analytical skills.

        Curiosity & Self-learning: I love learning new things, from cybersecurity tools like Burp Suite and Wireshark to web frameworks like Flask and React.

        Mentoring Ability: I’ve taught web development and helped B.Tech students with their projects, which reflects my patience and clarity in communication.

        Resilience: I’ve overcome challenges in academics and self-financed my learning efforts, which makes me adaptive and strong under pressure.

✅ 4. Tell me a time you led a team or solved a conflict

    In my final year, I led a team of four in developing a secure online payment system. Initially, we had conflicts about which technologies to use—some preferred Django, others wanted to go with Spring Boot. I stepped in to mediate and conducted a comparison of both stacks. We agreed on Spring Boot for backend and used React for frontend.

    I also divided tasks according to each member’s strength, ensured regular sync meetings, and the project was completed ahead of time. This experience taught me the value of communication, delegation, and leading by example.

✅ 5. What did you learn from your internship/project?

    My final year project taught me how security, user interface, and system design must work together in real-world applications. I learned the importance of encryption standards like AES and how tokenization protects sensitive data.

    I also understood how to manage time in team-based environments, how to debug effectively, and how to present a working solution. It gave me both confidence and clarity about the importance of combining technical depth with user-centric design.

✅ 6. What do you think about India's AI policy?

    India’s National AI policy is a promising step toward inclusive, responsible, and ethical AI. I appreciate that it focuses on AI for social good—like healthcare, agriculture, and education. However, I feel we need stronger infrastructure in rural areas and more AI-focused education at the grassroots level.

    Startups and academic institutions should also collaborate more to solve local problems using AI. It’s encouraging that India is investing in AI Centers of Excellence, but the challenge lies in equal access and real-world implementation.

✅ 7. What is your favorite subject in CS and why?

    My favorite subject is Computer Networks, especially network security. It fascinates me how data travels, the protocols involved, and how systems can be secured against attacks. I’ve also explored tools like Nmap, Wireshark, and SQLMap during cybersecurity workshops.

    Understanding vulnerabilities and how attackers exploit them pushes me to think both logically and ethically. I’m passionate about making systems secure, which is why I see myself contributing in tech-management roles that deal with security, privacy, or risk assessment.